# Configuring Squid for NTLM with Winbind authenticators

**Warning**: Any example presented here is provided "as-is" with no
support or guarantee of suitability. If you have any further questions
about these examples please email the squid-users mailing list.

by Jerry Murdock

Winbind is a recent addition to Samba providing some impressive
capabilities for NT based user accounts. From Squid's perspective
winbind provides a robust and efficient engine for both basic and NTLM
challenge/response authentication against an NT domain controller.

The winbind authenticators have been used successfully under Linux,
FreeBSD, Solaris and Tru64.

Before you get started have a read and think about the issues discussed
in
[](http://blogs.technet.com/b/authentication/archive/2006/04/07/ntlm-s-time-has-passed.aspx).

## Supported Samba Releases

Samba-3.X is supported natively using the ntlm\_auth helper shipped as
part of Samba. No Squid specific winbind helpers need to be compiled
(and even if compiled they won't work with Samba-3.X).

  - ![/\!\\](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/alert.png)
    Samba 2.2.X reached its End-Of-Life on October 1, 2004. It was
    supported using the winbind helpers shipped with Squid-2.5 but is no
    longer supported with later versions, even if using the helper from
    2.5 may still work.
    
    {\!}
    ![(\!)](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/idea.png)
    For Samba-3.X the winbind helpers which was shipped with Squid
    **should not** be used (and won't work

if you attempt to do so), instead the ntlm\_auth helper shipped as part
of the Samba-3 distribution should be used. This helper supports all
versions of Squid and both the ntlm and basic authentication schemes.
For details on how to use this Samba helper see the Samba documentation.
For group membership lookups the wbinfo\_group helper shipped with Squid
can be used (this is just a wrapper around the samba wbinfo program and
works with all versions of Samba)

## Samba Configuration

For full details on how to configure Samba and joining a domain please
see the Samba documentation. The Samba team has quite extensive
documentation both on how to join a NT domain and how to join a Active
Directory tree.

Samba must be built with these configure options:

``` 
        --with-winbind
```

and is normally enabled by default if you installed Samba from a
prepackaged distribution.

Then follow the Samba installation instructions. But please note that
neither nsswitch or the pam modules needs to be installed for Squid to
function, these are only needed if you want your OS to integrate with
the domain for UNIX accounts. (Note that if PAM **is** configured to
authenticate against Active Directory, so that AD controls access to
your Unix accounts etc., it may be prudent to have Squid authenticate
against PAM as well. PAM can send Squid's authentication requests to
Active Directory. This approach keeps all authentication running through
PAM, centralizing administration.)

### Test Samba's winbindd

Edit smb.conf for winbindd functionality. The following entries in the
\[global\] section of smb.conf may be used as a template.

    workgroup = mydomain
    password server = myPDC
    security = domain
    winbind uid = 10000-20000
    winbind gid = 10000-20000
    winbind use default domain = yes

Join the NT domain as outlined in the winbindd man page for your version
of samba.

Start nmbd (required to insure proper operation).

Start winbindd.

Test basic winbindd functionality "wbinfo -t":

    # wbinfo -t
    Secret is good

Test winbindd user authentication:

    # wbinfo -a mydomain\\myuser%mypasswd
    plaintext password authentication succeeded
    error code was NT_STATUS_OK (0x0)
    challenge/response password authentication succeeded
    error code was NT_STATUS_OK (0x0)

  - ![{i}](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/icon-info.png)
    both plaintext and challenge/response should return

"succeeded." If there is no "challenge/response" status returned then
Samba was not built with "--with-winbind-auth-challenge" and cannot
support ntlm authentication.

### SMBD and Machine Trust Accounts

The Samba team has incorporated functionality to change the machine
trust account password in the new "net" command. A simple daily cron job
scheduling "**net rpc changetrustpw**" is all that is needed, if
anything at all.

### winbind privileged pipe permissions

ntlm\_auth requires access to the privileged winbind pipe in order to
function properly. You enable this access by adding the security user
Squid runs as to the **winbindd\_priv** group.

    gpasswd -a proxy winbindd_priv

  - ![/\!\\](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/alert.png)
    Remove the cache\_effective\_group setting in squid.conf, if
    present. This setting causes squid to ignore the auxiliary
    winbindd\_priv group membership.
    
    ![{i}](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/icon-info.png)
    the default user Squid is bundled as **nobody** though some
    distribution packages are built with **squid** or **proxy** or other
    similar low-access user.

  - ![{X}](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/icon-error.png)
    on Debian an Ubuntu systems there may also be a
    */var/lib/samba/winbindd\_privileged* directory created by the
    winbind and ntlm\_auth tools with root ownership. The group of that
    folder needs to be changed to match the
    /var/run/samba/winbindd\_privileged location.

## Squid Configuration

As Samba-3.x has it's own authentication helper there is no need to
build any of the Squid authentication helpers for use with Samba-3.x
(and the helpers provided by Squid won't work if you do). You do however
need to enable support for the NTLM scheme if you plan on using this.
Also you may want to use the wbinfo\_group helper for group lookups

    --enable-auth="ntlm,basic"
    --enable-external-acl-helpers="wbinfo_group"

### Test Squid without auth

Before going further, test basic Squid functionality. Make sure squid is
functioning without requiring authorization.

### Test the helpers

Testing the winbind ntlm helper is not really possible from the command
line, but the winbind basic authenticator can be tested like any other
basic helper. Make sure to run the test as your cache\_effective\_user

    # /usr/local/bin/ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-basic
    mydomain+myuser mypasswd
    OK

The helper should return "OK" if given a valid username/password. *+* is
the *domain separator* set in your smb.conf

### squid.conf Settings

Add the following to enable both the winbind basic and ntlm
authenticators. IE will use ntlm and everything else basic:

    auth_param ntlm program /usr/local/bin/ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-ntlmssp
    auth_param ntlm children 30
    
    # warning: basic authentication sends passwords plaintext
    # a network sniffer can and will discover passwords
    auth_param basic program /usr/local/bin/ntlm_auth --helper-protocol=squid-2.5-basic
    auth_param basic children 5
    auth_param basic realm Squid proxy-caching web server
    auth_param basic credentialsttl 2 hours

And the following acl entries to require authentication:

    acl AuthorizedUsers proxy_auth REQUIRED
    ..
    http_access allow all AuthorizedUsers

### Test Squid with auth

  - Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Firefox:
    
      - Test browsing through squid with a NTLM capable browser. If
        logged into the domain, a password prompt should NOT pop up.
        Confirm the traffic really is being authorized by tailing
        access.log. The domain\\username should be present.

  - Netscape, Mozilla ( \< 1.4), Opera...:
    
      - Test with a NTLM non-capable browser. A standard password dialog
        should appear. Entering the domain should not be required if the
        user is in the default domain and "winbind use default domain =
        yes" is set in smb.conf. Otherwise, the username must be entered
        in "domain+username" format. (where + is the domain separator
        set in smb.conf)

If no usernames appear in access.log and/or no password dialogs appear
in either browser, then the acl/http\_access portions of squid.conf are
not correct.

Note that when using NTLM authentication, you will see two
"TCP\_DENIED/407" entries in access.log for every request. This is due
to the challenge-response process of NTLM.

[CategoryConfigExample](/CategoryConfigExample#)
