# Guidelines for Mirroring the Squid Website and Sources

Please ensure all mirrors use **rsync** to replicate their content.

## Informing us about the mirror

Please send **info at squid-cache.org** an email informing us about your
mirror if you are mirroring the FTP server or HTTP website. We will
register it for automatic scanning and list it with our official
download sources so long as it remains an accurate copy.

This email needs to include:

  - The URL you are providing for mirror
    
      - For FTP package mirrors the [](ftp://) URL and whether you
        provide an [](http://) alternative URL as well.
    
      - For HTTP package mirrors the [](http://) URL.
    
      - For website mirrors the FQDN for the mirror server or proxy

  - contact person and email
    
      - they will be notified of any problems with this server found by
        the automated testing.
    
      - optional: this same email address should also be subscribed to
        the [squid-mirrors mailing
        list](http://lists.squid-cache.org/listinfo/squid-mirrors).

  - country where the mirror is sited

  - name of organization to be credited with sponsorship

  - optional: a URL for the organization

  - optional: a note about the mirror or sponsor

Registered mirrors are tested for accuracy regularly. Mirrors are
removed from the public listings immediately if any problems are
detected, and re-added automatically a short period after the issue is
resolved. If the issues remains after several months the mirror is
automatically de-registered and scanning will cease at that time.

To terminate a mirror stop the updates and erase all public content from
the Squid Project. Please also notify the above contact to get scanning
stopped early.

## Mirrors for www.squid-cache.org

Both IPv4 and/or IPv6 mirrors are accepted.

HTTPS mirrors are not working yet, if you want to provide one please
contact **info at squid-cache.org** to discuss it.

  - Mirrors updates should happen every 1-2 hours,
    
      - no more than once per hour please.
    
      - no less than once per day.

  - Mirrors must remove content not in the master rsync directory.

  - Mirrors must provide a publicly accessible server FQDN.

  - The mirror must accept requests for www.squid-cache.org.

The website pages and content can be fetched from here:

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::http-files  /www/path

  - ![{i}](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/icon-info.png)
    We have deprecated the use of country-specific mirror domains. If
    you have previously been assigned a mirror domain such as
    www1.us.squid-cache.org. Please change that to hosting just the
    www.squid-cache.org domain and contact **info at squid-cache.org**
    about the change.

### Squid reverse-proxies

Alternatively a Squid reverse-proxy can be supplied relaying requests to
our master servers. Please indicate this in your contact email.

These mirrors are exempt from the update and removal timing requirements
since they track changes. They are still scanned for correct operation.

The squid.conf snippet required is here:

    http_port 80 accel vhost defaultsite=www.squid-cache.org
    
    cache_peer master.squid-cache.org parent 80 0 originserver
    
    acl squidcache dstdomain .squid-cache.org
    http_access allow squidcache
    cache_peer_access master.squid-cache.org allow squidcache
    cache_peer_access master.squid-cache.org deny all

## Mirrors for ftp.squid-cache.org

Package archive is split into two sections. An archive containing the
full history of package releases and a volatile area only containing the
most current supported packages.

  - You may mirror either or both

  - If mirroring both please use the same base /path

  - Mirrors must be updated at minimum of daily

  - Mirrors must be updated at maximum of 3-hourly

Mirrors which are public but restricted (ie to a certain country) are
still worth registering. Just indicate this nature in your contact
email. They will need to permit access for the scanners on
master.squid-cache.org to test the mirror.

### Latest release bundles

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::ftp-files  /path/squid

### Package Archive

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::archive  /path/archive

## Mirrors for the source code tree

### Daily Snapshot

This code has passed simple quality checks to verify that trivial build
problems are not going to occur. These are general build tests only.
System-specific problems and runtime problems may still be found.

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source /source-path

Version specific code can be found in the numbered series
sub-directories for their version. For example:

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-5    /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-4    /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.5  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.4  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.3  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.2  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.1  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-3.0  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-2.7  /source-path
    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source/squid-2.6  /source-path

### Hourly Snapshot

This code is the hourly latest update of code submitted to each branch.
This code is direct from the repository, build QA checks may not have
been performed.

Structure of the source branches matches that of the daily snapshots.

    rsync -avz --delete-after master.squid-cache.org::source-hourly  /source-path
