# Squid Software Foundation Sponsorship Program

**Version**: 6

Sponsors are a welcomed and significant source of Foundation funds.
Sponsors make non-directed monetary contributions of $1000 USD or more.
To arrange for a payment, please contact the Foundation by sending an
email to *<info@squid-cache.org>* with the word "sponsorship" somewhere
on the subject line. In your email, please include:

1.  the amount of payment and payment currency

2.  the preferred payment method (Foundation accepts payments via a bank
    wire transfer, a major credit card, PayPal, and a US bank check)

3.  an explicit acknowledgment that you do not expect to receive any
    substantial benefit for your payment (an optional web site listing
    described below does not count as a substantial benefit)

4.  whether you would like to be publicly listed as a Sponsor on the
    Squid Project web site (see below for details)

Sponsors may request to be listed on the Squid Project web
[site](http://www.squid-cache.org/Support/sponsors.html). The following
rules apply to such listings:

1.  The listing is added to the
    [](http://www.squid-cache.org/Support/sponsors.html) page, above the
    entries reflecting non-monetary or historically significant
    contributions.

2.  The listing is not added unless the Sponsor explicitly requests it,
    provides the necessary artifacts listed below, and reviews the final
    version (provided by the Foundation on a mock page).

3.  The listing is not added until the Foundation receives and
    acknowledges a qualified donation.

4.  The listing is removed approximately one year (365 calendar days)
    after the last qualified donation is received and acknowledged by
    the Foundation.

5.  The listings are ordered left-to-right and/or top-to-bottom by the
    finalized donation amount, rounded down to the nearest $1000. In
    case of a tie between two rounded finalized amounts, the finalized
    donation which arrived earlier is listed more to the left and/or
    higher. For the purpose of ordering listings: Earlier same-year
    donations (if any) are prorated and added to the latest donation.
    The resulting amount is called the finalized donation amount. The
    time of the latest donation arrival is used as the finalized
    donation arrival time.

6.  Any HTML link from the listing, such as the link from the logo
    image, uses the rel="nofollow" attribute.

7.  The listing must comply with US IRS "Qualified sponsorship payment"
    [regulations](http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p598.pdf).

8.  The Foundation reserves the right to change these rules at any time,
    without advance warnings and post factum notifications. Such changes
    may result in reordering, removal, and/or rejection of previously
    approved listings.

If you would like your Sponsor status to be reflected on the Squid
Project web site, please supply the following artifacts:

1.  An explicit acknowledgment that you are familiar and agree with the
    listing rules provided above.

2.  An optional logo as a 190x75 pixels image suitable for display on
    white background.

3.  A required short alternative plain text for the logo image (i.e.,
    the value of the HTML "alt" attribute of the logo \<image\>
    element). If the logo image is not supplied, this text will be used
    instead of the logo image.

4.  A URL to be used for the link from the logo.

![/\!\\](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/alert.png) Per
US IRS [regulations](http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p598.pdf), a sponsor
listing must *not* use qualitative or comparative language and must
*not* contain price information (or other indications of savings or
value), endorsements, or inducements to purchase, sell, or use the
products or services. Sponsorship listings are *not* advertisements\!
Submissions that violate IRS guidelines or may be interpreted as ads (as
judged by the Foundation) will be rejected.

Preparing your listing for publication may take a few weeks, and each
review iteration with your team may increase that delay. Listings are
removed one year after the last qualified donation (not one year after
publication). To maximize the listing posting duration, you may submit
all the necessary materials for review and preparation *before* you make
the donation.

If you have any questions about these rules, please
[contact](http://www.squid-cache.org/Support/contact.html) us.

**Future changes**: Depending on the sponsors feedback, the Foundation
may split all sponsors into two or three levels (e.g., Gold, Silver, and
Bronze). Sponsors donating significantly more than the minimum $1000
would get larger icons and/or a paragraph of text (subject to the same
US IRS rules discussed above). If you think adding levels and/or text is
a good idea, please tell us how your contribution would change if we
offer those enhancements and what donation amounts you consider
appropriate for each level.
