# Media Streams: How can I proxy and cache Real Audio?

  - by *Rodney van den Oever* and *James R Grinter*

**Warning**: Any example presented here is provided "as-is" with no
support or guarantee of suitability. If you have any further questions
about these examples please email the squid-users mailing list.

## Outline

HTTP is an alternative delivery mechanism introduced with version 3
players, and it allows a reasonable approximation to "streaming" data -
that is playing it as you receive it.

It isn't available in the general case: only if someone has made the
realaudio file available via an HTTP server, or they're using a version
4 server, they've switched it on, and you're using a version 4 client.
If someone has made the file available via their HTTP server, then it'll
be cachable. Otherwise, it won't be (as far as we can tell.)

The more common RealAudio link connects via their own *pnm:* protocol
and is transferred using this proprietary protocol (via TCP or UDP) and
not using HTTP. It can't be cached nor proxied by Squid, and requires
something such as the simple proxy that Progressive Networks themselves
have made available, if you're in a firewall/no direct route situation.
Their product does not cache (and I don't know of any software available
that does.)

Some confusion arises because there is also a configuration option to
use an HTTP proxy (such as Squid) with the RealAudio/RealVideo players.
This is because the players can fetch the ".ram" file that contains the
*pnm:* reference for the audio/video stream. They fetch that .ram file
from an HTTP server, using HTTP.

## Squid Configuration File

Note that the first request is a POST, and the second has a '?' in the
URL, so standard Squid configurations would treat it as non-cachable. It
also looks rather "magic."

Paste the configuration file like this:

    acl GET method GET
    acl POST method POST
    
    acl RealAudio_url url_path_regex /SmpDsBhgRl(.*)
    acl RealAudio_mime req_mime_type application/x-pncmd

  - *NP:* The URL-Path regex in this is case-sensitive. DO NOT use the
    **-i** option on this pattern.

### to block the media streams ...

Use the ACL above in **http\_access**:

    http_access deny GET RealAudio_url
    http_access deny POST RealAudio_mime

### to cache the media stream ...

POST are not cacheable by default. To enable caching of RealAudio POST:

    cache allow POST RealAudio_mime

The followup GET request is a Dynamic URL. Squid-3.0 and earlier come
with defaults which prevents dynamic content being cached. This needs to
be removed in order to cache the stream data GET request.

see [dynamic
content](/ConfigExamples/DynamicContent#)
configuration example for how to cache this.

## Real Audio Configuration

  - Point the RealPlayer at your Squid server's HTTP port (e.g. 3128).

  - Using the Preferences-\>Transport tab, select *Use specified
    transports* and with the *Specified Transports* button, select use
    *HTTP Only*.

## Real Audio documentation

The *Real Player*(and *Real Player Plus*) manual states:

    Use HTTP Only
    Select this option if you are behind a firewall and cannot
    receive data through TCP.  All data will be streamed through
    HTTP.
    
    Note:  You may not be able to receive some content if you select
    this option.

Again, from the documentation:

    RealPlayer 4.0 identifies itself to the firewall when making a
    request for content to a ''RealServer''.  The following string is
    attached to any URL that the Player requests using HTTP GET:
    
    /SmpDsBhgRl
    
    Thus, to identify an HTTP GET request from the RealPlayer, look
    for:
    
    http://[^/]+/SmpDsBhgRl
    
    The Player can also be identified by the mime type in a POST to
    the RealServer.  The RealPlayer POST has the following mime
    type:
    
    "application/x-pncmd"

[CategoryConfigExample](/CategoryConfigExample#)
