# Squid on OpenBSD

## Pre-Built Binary Packages

Squid is available in [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org) packages. You
can choose from a standard build, or a build with Kerberos (OpenBSD uses
Heimdal).

    # pkg_add squid
    Ambiguous: choose package for squid
    a       0: <None>
            1: squid-5.5
            2: squid-5.5-krb5
    Your choice: 1
    squid-5.5: ok
    The following new rcscripts were installed: /etc/rc.d/squid
    See rcctl(8) for details.
    New and changed readme(s):
            /usr/local/share/doc/pkg-readmes/squid
    
    # vi /etc/squid/squid.conf
    
    ##...to start at boot:
    # rcctl enable squid
    
    ##...to start immediately:
    # rcctl start squid

LDAP authentication/ACL modules are packaged separately and can be
installed with "**pkg\_add squid-ldap**". msktutil is also available in
packages and may be helpful to users wanting to integrate with Microsoft
authentication via Kerberos.

If using Squid as an
[InterceptionProxy](/InterceptionProxy#),
note that the packages are built using --enable-ipfw-transparent which
is the preferred method on OpenBSD. Use this with "divert-to" rules in
PF. More information is available in the [package's README
file](http://www.openbsd.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb/ports/www/squid/pkg/README-main?content-type=text%2Fplain).

OpenBSD releases are made approximately every 6 months. Typically
packages are only updated in "-current" (development snapshots) but
occasionally updates are backported to the "-stable" branch for the most
recent release (there is no LTS version; an OpenBSD release is only
supported for 6 months); run "**pkg\_add -u**" to update if a new
version is available and "**rcctl restart squid**" to restart.

## Building from ports

If you need to add patches or modify the build, follow the [ports
FAQ](https://www.openbsd.org/faq/ports/ports.html) to checkout the ports
tree, then the following will build Squid from ports, create a package
and install it:

    cd /usr/ports/www/squid
    make clean=all
    make         # can be omitted; install depends on this anyway
    make package # can be omitted; install depends on this anyway
    make install

Compiler flags can be given on the make command line. Debug builds can
be done by passing flags in the DEBUG variable; setting this also
disables strippping. e.g.

    make CXXFLAGS="-O3"
    make DEBUG="-O0 -g"

The standard compiler on most CPU architectures is clang, a few still
use GCC. If you need to test building from ports using GCC on a
clang-based architecture, change the COMPILER line in the ports Makefile
to "COMPILER=ports-gcc". gdb in the base OS is an outdated GPLv2 version
and doesn't cope well with modern compilers; install a newer version
from ports with "pkg\_add gdb" and use the "egdb" binary. lldb is also
available though at the time of writing is still at an early stage of
use in OpenBSD.

## Compiling outside ports

To build squid for standard use, no particular method should be needed.
See
[SquidFaq/CompilingSquid](/SquidFaq/CompilingSquid#)
for detailed instructions.

The following may be outdated: If you plan to do development on squid,
some caution is needed: apparently something in the mix of sources and
libraries trips a bug in gcc when building parts of the test-suite with
optimizations. Building with optimizations explicitly turned off will
allow to compile fine. In other words you'll need to:

    CFLAGS='-O0 -Wall -g' CXXFLAGS="$CFLAGS" ./test-builds.sh

The old --enable-pf-transparent method is still available but is not
recommended. If you do use this for some reason, note that the userid
running Squid requires \*write\* access against /dev/pf to invoke the
ioctl() to do a NAT lookup. For this method, use "rdr-to" PF rules to
pass the traffic to squid.

[CategoryKnowledgeBase](/CategoryKnowledgeBase#)
[SquidFaq/BinaryPackages](/SquidFaq/BinaryPackages#)
