# Introduction

The Squid source code has evolved more from empirical observation and
tinkering, rather than a solid design process. It carries a legacy of
being "touched" by numerous individuals, each with somewhat different
techniques and terminology.

Squid is a (mostly) single-process proxy server. Every request is
handled by the main process, with the exception of FTP. However, Squid
does not use a *threads package* such has Pthreads. While this might be
easier to code, it suffers from portability and performance problems.
Instead Squid maintains data structures and state information for each
active request.

The code is often difficult to follow because there are no explicit
state variables for the active requests. Instead, thread execution
progresses as a sequence of *callback functions* which get executed when
I/O is ready to occur, or some other event has happened. As a callback
function completes, it is responsible for registering the next callback
function for subsequent I/O.

Note there is only a pseudo-consistent naming scheme. In most cases
functions are named like `moduleFooBar()`. However, there are also some
functions named like `module_foo_bar()`.

Note that the Squid source changes rapidly, and some parts of this
document may become out-of-date. If you find any inconsistencies, please
feel free to modify this document.

# Conventions

Function names and file names will be written in a courier font, such as
`store.c` and `storeRegister()`. Data structures and their members will
be written in an italicized font, such as *StoreEntry*.

# Coding Conventions

## Infrastructure

Most custom types and tools are documented in the code or the relevant
portions of this manual. Some key points apply globally however.

### Fixed width types

If you need to use specific width types - such as a 16 bit unsigned
integer, use one of the following types. To access them simply include
"config.h".

  - int16\_t - 16 bit signed.

  - u\_int16\_t - 16 bit unsigned.

  - int32t - 32 bit signed.

  - u\_int32\_t - 32 bit unsigned.

  - int64\_t - 64 bit signed.

  - u\_int64\_t - 64 bit unsigned.
