Most
[MikroTik](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/MikroTik#)
devices are pretty Router/Switch level and despite the fact that they
have a proxy service it's not usable for HTTPS/SNI/etc. With
[MikroTik](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/MikroTik#)
the only option is to use some external service or device. The only real
working solution I can recommend is some level of proxy or content
filtering aware SSL deep inspection device/software. (The solution is
for desktops and as for mobile devices you will need to test first to
make sure it fit your needs)

I wrote an example for a filtering service which is based on
Fortinet/RedWood/Squid/Checkpoint/others and customized url
categorizing. I am using
[RedWood](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/RedWood#)
in production and have used Squid for a very long time but it lacks
support for HTTP2 so there for
[RedWood](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/RedWood#).
The example service and the
sources([GoLang](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/GoLang#)
and python ontop of docker compose) can be seen at:
[](https://github.com/elico/yt-classification-service-example)

Technically speaking what you will need to define in the proxy or
appliance if it can decrypt SSL is a policy which will include the
relevant
[YouTube](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/YouTube#)
and other services url patterns. For
[YouTube](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/YouTube#)
to work eventually you will need to allow their video CDN network which
is under the domain \*.googlevideo.com. It is pretty safe to just allow
all of the subdomains since google will require you to access their "Web
portal"(technically speaking) urls like:
`http://*.youtube.com/watch?v={video_id}...` Once you have the list of
urls you want to allow on the youtube.com domain you will need to decide
on the general policy which is either allow or deny all videos. To block
all videos you will need to eventually block the pattern
`http://*.youtube.com/watch?v=*`. In case you want to block also youtube
thumbnail images and video snippets you will need to add another
patterns to the setup. Another piece which is not covered in the code is
[YouTube](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/YouTube#)
APIs which can provide to the end user "googlevideo.com" links. One such
a service name is:
[LiteTube](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/LiteTube#)
which embeds the googlevideo.com urls inside the html of the page. I am
not aware of someone else then me that have implemented a prediction of
the relevant googlevideo.com links for a video and allow only these.
However I have not published this code yet, I do expect big appliances
and cloud services companies to implement this without my help..

If you are familiar with regex and bash enough you would be able to
learn the relevant patterns from another script/code I wrote for the
[CheckPoint](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/CheckPoint#)
embedded NGFW 1500 series which is based on R80.20 at:
[](https://github.com/elico/checkpoint-vid-filtering-managment)

Probably the relevant REGEX for this purpose are:

    (^|.*\.)youtube\.com/embed/##VID##
    (^|.*\.)youtube\.com/watch\?v=##VID##
    (^|.*\.)ytimg\.com/.*/##VID##/
    (^|.*\.)youtu\.be/.*##VID##.*

Please pay attention that the url query parameters position can be
changed per request so you might need to tweak the regex if you will
have someone trying to override these restrictions.

I don't know the scenario but I always recommend on educating first
before the issues comes if possible. This is what why I wrote this long
response.

I have been working on public white lists of
[YouTube](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/action/show/EliezerCroitoru/Drafts/YouTubeFiltering/YouTube#)
videos not everyone shares the same ideals of me so it's very hard to
whitelist and expect everyone to agree with this.

If you or anyone wants to implement squid with ssl bump and have a
service that does the same you might want to look at the sources this
ruby service I wrote at:
[](https://github.com/elico/squid-external-matchers/blob/master/youtube-id-matcher.rb)
