See [Discussed
Page](/ProgrammingGuide/DoxygenDocumentation#)

Thanks Kinkie, I should have added this to the wiki long ago. You seem
to have covered a fair chunk of what I wrote up last year.

I've made a few alterations that need to be noted:

  - There is a distinct difference between class members and functions.
    As a general rule everything needs to be documented at the point of
    declaration. This helps casual readers not have to wade through the
    long .cc for details of an object they found in a .h file. I've
    found very little use for brief descriptions. Each object varies in
    whether or not it suites a long or brief, and the code docs do not
    need to distinguish by forcing extra doc lines. Doxygen seems to be
    smart enough to identify a description to long to be brief. Both
    functions and methods need to have any named parameters be identical
    in their declaration as in their definition. That includes adding to
    the declaration where missing.
    
    The use of `\addtogroup` are not useful on a per-class basis. Each
    class should have a 1-1 relationship with the component API its part
    of. So the group definitions can be entirely outsourced to the
    component.dox files which contains the API high-level documentation.
    
    The use of `\see` is likewise very little utility. The auto-docs
    generate references, referenced-by, called-by, and smart links for
    everything that is directly related. Component-Level documentation
    (component.dox files) are a whole other beast entirely than short
    clean code documentation. Feel free to move that description or make
    a better template.
    
    The new `\cpptest` tag. Format is intended to allow smart-tags to
    kick in. I'm not sure how to document that at present.
    
    `\bug` and `\todo` really needs to be documented in the code where
    the bug/todo exists. They are usually part of a code-path that the
    developer has no time for completing in current work scope and are
    very code-line specific.

[AmosJeffries](/AmosJeffries#)
2009-04-17 21:26

Entities terminology needs to be polished to be correct from C++ point
of view and to be more consistent/natural. Here is a step towards that
direction:

# Entities to be documented

There are several types of entities that must be documented, including
**components**, **globals** (including types, classes, and global
variables), and **members** (including class methods and data members).

  - Components  
    Includes additional documentation information, such as component API
    object groups, and component state flow diagrams etc, this
    documentation has more complex requirements. see below

  - Globals  
    should be documented where they are declared, just above or to the
    left of their declaration. Use the shortest sufficient description
    to document the purpose of the global.

  - Members  
    should be documented where they are declared. Use the shortest
    sufficient description to document the purpose of the global. Method
    definitions may have more detailed, expanded documentation.

\--
[AlexRousskov](/AlexRousskov#)

C++ comments (/// and ///\<) should be allowed and *encouraged* for
one-line descriptions, IMO.

\--
[AlexRousskov](/AlexRousskov#)

FWIW, I am strongly against the proposed "Function / Class Method
documentation template". It is too verbose and yet useless in most
cases. The documentation should help the developer understand the code,
not duplicate the code in English. In-source documentation should be
concise and supply new information that is not readily available from
the next line of code. We should not document what the code already
says, loud and clear. For example, correct types and good parameter
names are usually sufficient for parameter documentation.

\--
[AlexRousskov](/AlexRousskov#)

The template states (and if it doesn't, it should) that almost all
clauses are optional. Everything else is (for good and bed) left to the
good sense of the documentor. I'm not fully with you in saying that it
should not replicate what the code says, as repeating it in english
allows the docuemntor to state the contracts (explicit or implicit) that
the code obeys to, or should obey to, allows for cross-referencing, and
can be extracted to a separate document. I agree that in most cases the
code is more accurate than the documentation, and thus unless otherwise
stated it takes precedence.

Please remind that the main purpose for the template is to avoid the
documentor the hassle of having to actually \_learn\_ doxygen, replacing
this for a 'copy,paste'n edit' approach.

\--
[FrancescoChemolli](/FrancescoChemolli#)

    almost all clauses are optional. Everything else is left to the good sense of the documentor. 

Until we get skillful documetors on board, I do not think it is a good
idea to present a 30-line template and hope that the documentor will
come to her senses and cut most of the stuff out when documenting a
simple 5-line function. At least that is not a good idea unless your
goal is to get patches where every method is prefixed with 30 lines of
mostly useless comments based on a copy-pasted template.

If we provide templates, let's provide the minimum one-line template and
then document what can be added, with elaborate examples if needed. Like
you, I do not want the documentor to learn Doxygen. However, I am more
concerned about the reviewer who may have to tell the documentor that
1000 lines of painfully detailed comments and copy-pasted templates
should be removed. It is much easier to suggest that a few missing
details are added than to ask that the results of the hard work should
be removed.

FWIW, the one-line template may look like this:

    /// One-line description of effect, without restating the function name in English. 
    functionName()
    {
      ...
    }

\--
[AlexRousskov](/AlexRousskov#)

    Until we get skillful documetors on board, I do not think it is a good idea to present a 30-line template and hope that the documentor will come to her senses and cut most of the stuff out when documenting a simple 5-line function.

At this time it's not really a problem, as I'm the only one actively
working on this.

I agree that also suggesting a one-line template is a good idea. But I
would also like that when a more complex documentation is needed, then
all instances follow the same layout and general structure.
Least-surprise principle..

For a practical example of how it may end up looking like, please see
[](http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~kinkie/squid/documentation/annotate/head%3A/src/ip/IpAddress.h)
.

\--
[FrancescoChemolli](/FrancescoChemolli#)
