# Feature: COSS (Cyclic Object Storage System)

  - **Goal**: Stabilized COSS systems in all Squid.

  - **Status**: 2.6+ complete. 3.x needs stability fixes ported from 2.6

  - **Version**: 2.6

  - **Developer**:
    [Henrik\_Nordstr√∂m](/Henrik_Nordstr%C3%B6m#),
    others welcome

  - **Priority**: 2

## What is COSS?

COSS is a Cyclic Object storage system originally designed by Eric
Stern. COSS works with a single file, and each stripe is a fixed size an
in a fixed position in the file. The stripe size is a compile-time
option.

As objects are written to a COSS stripe, their place is pre-reserved and
data is copied into a memory copy of the stripe. Because of this, the
object size must be known before it can be stored in a COSS filesystem.
(Hence the max-size requirement with a coss cache\_dir.)

When a stripe is filled, the stripe is written to disk, and a new memory
stripe is created.

## Does it perform better?

Yes. At the time of writing COSS is the fastest performing cache\_dir
available in squid. Because COSS cache\_dirs can only store small cache
objects, they need to be combineds with another cache\_dir type (aufs,
diskd or ufs) in order to allow caching of larger objects. Because COSS
takes care of the small objects more efficiently, the non-COSS
cache\_dirs also perform more efficiently because they have a small
number of larger objects to deal with.

## How do I use it?

You need to run Squid version
[2.6](http://www.squid-cache.org/Versions/v2/2.6) or later to be able to
run a stable version of COSS.

To configure Squid for COSS, use the *--enable-storeio* option (and the
--enable-coss-aio-ops to enable async I/O):

    % ./configure --enable-storeio=coss,ufs

## If I use COSS, do I have to wipe out my current cache?

Yes. COSS uses a single file or direct partition access to store
objects. To prepare a file or disk for COSS you need to run the
following command:

    dd if=/dev/zero bs=1048576 count=<size> of=<outfile>

where:

**\<size\>** is the size of the COSS partition in MB

**\<outfile\>** is the partition or filename that you want to use as the
COSS store

## What options are required for COSS?

The minimum configuration for a COSS partition is as follows:

    cache_dir coss <file> <size> max-size=<max-size>
    cache_swap_log /var/spool/squid/%s

where:

**\<file\>** is the partition, directory, or file name that you want to
use as the COSS store. You will need to pre-create the file if it
doesn't exist.

**\<size\>** is the size of the COSS cache\_dir in MB

**\<max-size\>** is the size of the largest object that this cache\_dir
can store. This value can not be bigger then 1MB in the default
configuration.

If a regular file name is used as \<file\>, use the cache\_swap\_log
option to specify a directory where Squid should store swap.state files
for all cache\_dirs that lack their own directory (see below).

If a directory name is used as \<file\>, Squid creates COSS store in
that directory, using "stripe" as a file name, while placing the swap
state in the swap.state file in the same directory. In this case, Squid
ignores the cache\_swap\_state option discussed above. Specifying a
directory for COSS storage is handy for isolating COSS cache\_dir I/O
and failures to a single disk.

## Are there any other configuration options for COSS?

COSS partitions have a number of different configuration options
available. These options are:

    block-size=<n>

This will limit the maximum size for a COSS cache\_dir (where the size
is calculated as the size of the disk space + the size of any membufs)
as follows:

n=512 - 8192 MB

n=1024 - 16384 MB

n=2048 - 32768 MB

n=4096 - 65536 MB

n=8192 - 131072 MB

**The default value for block-size is 512 bytes.**

    overwrite-percent=<n>

This will allow a trade-off between the size a COSS cache\_dir will grow
to, the accuracy of the LRU algorithm and the amount of disk I/O
bandwidth used. \<n\> must be between 0 and 100.

If it is set to 0, the COSS cache\_dir will always copy any cache hits
to the current disk stripe. This reduces the amount of unique data that
the cache will store, increases the amount of disk bandwidth used but
makes the LRU algorithm work perfectly.

If it is set to 100, the COSS cache\_dir will never copy any cache hits
to the current stripe. This will mean that all objects will be stored
exactly once, reducing the total disk bandwidth used, but it effectively
makes the disk a FIFO (ie popular objects ony stay in the cache\_dir for
as long as it takes for COSS to loop back tot he original stripe).

**The default value for overwrite-percent of 50 is a good balance
between the two extremes.**

    max-stripe-waste=<n>

This option sets the maximum amount of space that a COSS cache\_dir will
waste when writing a stripe to disk. Every time a COSS stripe is
written, it will waste up to max-size worth of space. This becomes a
problem if max-size is set to a larger value (eg is max-size is 512K
when a COSS stripe is 1MB, up to 50 of the space in that stripe could be
written to disk with no data). max-stripe-waste overcomes this problem
by dynamically reducing the max-size value to ensure that only \<n\>
bytes of space will be wasted on each stripe write.

**The max-stripe-waste option is not set by default.**

    membufs=<n>

This option determines the maximum number of stripes that COSS will use
to send cache hits to clients. It is designed to limit the amount of
memory that a given COSS cache\_dir can cause squid to use. Once squid
runs out of membufs, it starts to move all objects to the current disk
stripe, effectively ignoring the overwrite-percent setting.

**The default value for membufs is 10.**

    maxfullbufs=<n>

This option sets the maximum number of stripes that are full, but
waiting to be freed that this cache\_dir will hold in memory. Once
again, this is a setting to limit the amount of memory that a given COSS
cache\_dir can grow to use.

Each cache\_dir will reserve the last 2 maxfullbufs for cache hits (ie
they will only be used when squid runs out of membufs). This is designed
to allow a higher hit rate at the expense of storing new objects in the
cache.

**The default is to leave the maxfullbufs option as unlimited (ie we can
always accept new objects).**

## Store index rebuilding

The current (Squid 2.6) COSS implementation needs to scan the whole
data-file to rebuild the object index, which happens every time squid is
reconfigured or rotates the logfiles. This implies a spike in CPU load
when those activities are performed.

## Examples

    cache_dir coss /var/spool/squid/coss 100 block-size=512 max-size=131072

  - This will use a file with the filename /var/spool/squid/coss

  - The cache\_dir will store up to 100MB worth of data

  - The block size is 512 byte

  - Objects that are up to 131072 bytes long will be stored.

<!-- end list -->

    cache_dir coss /dev/sdf1 34500 max-size=524288 max-stripe-waste=32768 block-size=4096 maxfullbufs=10

  - This will use the /dev/sdf1 partition

  - The cache\_dir will store up to 34500MB worth of data

  - The block size is 4096 bytes

  - Objects that are up to 524288 bytes long will be stored.

  - If a given stripe has less than 524288 bytes available, this
    cache\_dir will only accept smaller objects until there is less than
    32768 bytes available in the stripe.

  - If the default stripe size of 1MB is not changed, up to 10MB will be
    used for stripes that are waiting to be written to disk.
