# Feature: SOCKS Support

  - **Goal**: To add SOCKS support to Squid.

  - **Status**: Testing. Code available.

  - **ETA**: unknown

  - **Version**:

  - **Developer**:
    [AmosJeffries](/AmosJeffries#)

# Details

Squid handles many HTTP related protocols. But presently is unable to
natively accept or send HTTP connections over SOCKS.

The aim of this project will be to make
[http\_port](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/http_port#) accept
SOCKS connections and make outgoing connections to SOCKS
[cache\_peers](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peers#) so
that Squid can send requests easily through to SOCKS gateways or act as
an HTTP SOCKS gateway itself.

## Existing State of Squid:

A little research indicates SOCKSv5 is supposed to be as easy as a new
bind() call and library linkage.
[](http://www.squid-cache.org/mail-archive/squid-users/199901/0033.html)

    export CFLAGS=" -Dbind=SOCKSbind "
    export CXXFLAGS=" -Dbind=SOCKSbind "
    export LDADD=" -lsocks "

With knowledge of how upstream peering works it follows that the
connect() calls Squid may also need to be socksified to use
[cache\_peer](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peer#) with a
socks proxy. Which would be:

    export CFLAGS=" -Dbind=SOCKSbind -Dconnect=SOCKSconnect "
    export CXXFLAGS=" -Dbind=SOCKSbind -Dconnect=SOCKSconnect "

Doing these apparently works ad makes Squid into a SOCKS proxy. There
are several users who have reported actively using Squid in this
fashion.

  - ![/\!\\](https://wiki.squid-cache.org/wiki/squidtheme/img/alert.png)
    It has one downside in that ALL connections inbound and outbound are
    SOCKS connections. There is no middle ground for mixed
    SOCKS/non-SOCKS connections.

## Upgrade Plans

A new COMM\_SOCKSBIND flag will be needed to the comm layer calls for
the listener binding, outbound maybe a config setting for
[cache\_peer](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peer#) acting
on the bind() choice directly.

I've had a bit of time too short to do anything much and created a
branch that is supposed to do listening port and SOCKS peers. It builds
and listens on an
[http\_port](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/http_port#) as far as
I can tell now. squidclient has also been adapted to use SOCKS socket
operations. Bazaar Branch available on launchpad at
[](https://code.launchpad.net/~yadi/squid/socks) for anyone keen on
testing.

Outstanding Problem:

  - This branch seems not to perform SOCKS. Even when SOCK libraries are
    linked and SOCKS binding and connection calls are used. It is most
    likely my lack of SOCKS programming and debugging knowledge. The
    branch built and appeared to run fine as a regular proxy.

  - There seems to be no difference between traffic arriving on a
    SOCKS\_listen() bound port and on a regular listen() bound port.
    Both regular and SOCKS traffic was tried. Both ports accepted both
    types of traffic\!

  - There seems to be no SOCKS operations on the outbound cache\_peer
    links, even when talking to a SOCKS server, over a SSH SOCKS tunnel
    and using SOCKS\_connect()+SOCKS\_bind() to make the outgoing
    connection. Possibly errors at the tunnel or server configuration,
    looking for someone more expert to test that properly.

So currently work is blocked. Using the API via -D= compiler options
still apparently works, writing the code to use an if() statement fails.
Ideas?

Situations:

  - Certain apps sending HTTP but can be configured only with SOCKS
    proxy (not HTTP proxy) as a relay. Weird but true.

  - The TOR network passes HTTP traffic but require SOCKS to interface a
    gateway with that network.

  - SSH tunnels apparently also use/require SOCKS to tunnel across to a
    web server at the other end.

  - A MMORP Game has also been reported as requiring SOCKS to gateway. I
    have not been able to verify at this point that their traffic is
    actually HTTP though.

Extra additions: there seems to also be a system configuration setting
and config file(s) for setting a parent SOCKSv5 proxy. It may be useful
to pull this in as a possible automatic
[cache\_peer](http://www.squid-cache.org/Doc/config/cache_peer#) entry.

[CategoryFeature](/CategoryFeature#)
